#Website Style Rules

The goal of website text is to provide relevant and useful information as quickly as possible with a friendly, inclusive tone of voice. 

In all cases, remember to be respectable and conscious of visitor’s time limits. Online readers scan web pages and spend less than one minute reading text. A long paragraph might bury your key points.  The important concepts and directives will be lost on the reader. 

Sometimes, carefully outlined details are necessary for the reader to understand. In these situations, keep paragraphs and sentences short. Try breaking ideas is into bulleted lists and/or using subheads. 


##FRIENDLY VOICE

Maintain a friendly and direct voice while writing, which invites the reader to engage in the activity or effort. 

EXAMPLE: 

Public Meetings & Hearings

Scheduled public meetings and scheduled public hearings are posted here when scheduled.
Public participation is an important component of the regulatory process. Public meetings are forums designed to accept public input for consideration into the development of hunting regulation, or other related rule proposals.  Public hearings are forums designed to accept public comment on proposed regulations under consideration by the Board of Natural Resources.
Individuals unable to attend such opportunities may submit input or comment through other means - see the link "Submitting Comments Regarding Hunting Regulations."

REVISED: 

Public Meetings & Hearings

Your opinion matters! Public participation is essential to the regulatory process. You have several ways to voice your thoughts on future hunting regulations: 

* Attend public meetings to provide input rule proposals or regulations that are under development. 

* Attend public hearings to comment on proposed regulations that the Board of Natural Resources has under consideration. 

* Submit your comments via email, U.S. mail or telephone, if you can’t attend a meeting or hearing. 


##COMPELLING

Always answer the question: Why should I care? Keeping visitors engaged is paramount. Make your text personal and tell the reader what’s it for him/her. 

Don’t
Follow the safety rules found in the handbook. 

Do 
Keep yourself and your family safe this boating season by remembering these simple steps.


Don’t
School field trip groups may visit the Go Fish Education Center at a discounted per-child rate on Tuesdays through Thursdays from 9:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. (trip length may vary depending on age level). Programming is aligned to the Georgia Performance Standards and may include a guided aquarium tour, interactive hands-on classroom lesson and a movie. Live fish and wildlife exhibits, fishing simulators, educational displays, and a theater offer several entry points for teaching conservation.

Do   

Get your students excited about conservation! They can get eyeball to eyeball with hundreds of Georgia fishes in our aquarium, try their hand at fishing on a simulator, enjoy a movie about Georgia’s unique traditions and habitat, and learn important conservation lessons at numerous hands-on exhibits and/or with interactive classroom exercises. 

Programming is aligned to the Georgia Performance Standards. School groups receive a discounted rate, Tuesday through Thursday, 9:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 


HOW TO PRESENT LINKED INFORMATION

Ryan, will it be appropriate for the content author to link information within the text? Longer content such as articles or how-tos seem like this would be necessary while shorter models such as places may not support them. 

1.	Links should always be self-explanatory. If they are within text, the link should be labeled with the subject matter. They should not contain the actual url. 

Don’t
Details at www.georgiawildlife.com/conservation/support or (478) 994-1438.

Do 
Read more about how to support conservation efforts or call (478) 994-1438. 

2.	When linking to another page, provide only the subject matter, not instructions or further information that would require the visitor to toggle between the two pages. 

Don’t
Find a Kids Fishing Event
Events throughout the year are shown on the WRD events calendar. Search the calendar to view events by date and location. Most events occur Apr. to Sept. each year. Click the "Show Calendar" button on the right of the screen to see events by month.
The above explanation may require the visitor to remember the instructions or to return to this page n this example, the information is repeated on the linked page as well, making it a duplicated effort (and taking up valuable space).  
Do

Find a Kids Fishing Event – by month, day or location
Questions: Are WMA and PFA acceptable on second reference? In Style Guide, they are; however, in previous conversations we talked about not using those abbreviations. Suggested style: 

Flat Creek Public Fishing Area on first reference
Flat Creek on second reference

